<head>
  <title>AML</title>
</head>
<body>
<h4>Chapter 1</h4>
Introduction
<h5>1.1 Background</h5>
<h6>1.1.1. Background</h6>
<p>With the rapid growth of technology, the learning patterns become
diverse, and they are no longer solely restricted in the classroom and
with paper-printed textbooks. In other words, the learning activities can
take place in distance empowered by multiple types of equipment. The
distance learning is usually to expand its impact with the assistance of
electronic means, simplifying the method of information delivery and
deriving new fields of teaching approach. Education providers are
showing increasing interests in releasing their learning resources online
in the digital form, including text, image, audio, video, and so on.
Therefore, learners can utilize the electronic learning (e-learning)
extensively to participate in learning activities and access learning
contents on their own schedule. Therein, learners are given freedom to be
self-paced and able to make their own decisions to slow down or speed
up their learning rate of progress as needed. The development of
e-learning does not replace the traditional on-campus or class-based
learning, but it eases the way of accessing to learning resources by
leveraging advanced learning technologies, and to improve them by
accommodating multiple learning styles using a variety of teaching
methods and delivery mechanisms adapted to different learners. Hence,
the adoption of e-learning can offer learners the 24hour/7day learning
experience and eliminate the geographical barriers in some extent.
The significant development of e-learning can be viewed from two
perspectives. Firstly, the learning opportunities can be gained anytime
and anywhere through the use of mobile devices, provided that wireless
network is well achievable. Among all types of learning modes in elearning, mobile learning (m-learning) is rising remarkably, from which
learners are given more freedom to have learning activities wherever
they are and whenever they want. Consequently, they are no longer
required to keep sitting in front of a computer, desktop or fixed device,
while they can carry portable devices to enjoy the convenience in the
mobile environment.</p>
<p>An eye-catching phenomenon of m-learning is that the fragmented
pieces of time can be made good use. In addition, with the widespread
use of mobile devices, people are taking advantage of smart phones and
tablets to engage in online learning, which is termed as “micro learning”.
Micro learning is a type of short-term learning involving activities based
on small learning units. It is based on the assumption that a short time
span is needed to complete a relevant learning task. It requires not only
the learning task to be fragmented, but also that it to be completed (rather
than being left unfinished halfway). In contemporary e-society, micro
learning pertains to small pieces of knowledge delivered through open
education resources (Kovachev et al. 2012). It is a major learning
channel in mobile environment and is becoming popular with nextgeneration learners who learn on the move, with easy access to the
‘cloud’ or Internet of Things (Bruck et al., 2012; Hug & Lindner, 2005).
As a result, most open education resources (OER) providers have
promptly released their mobile apps on mainstream mobile devices and
operation systems (e.g., iOS, Android) and adapted their Webpages to
appropriate screen size and operational mode of mobile devices to enable
more convenient use for learners.</p>
<p>Secondly, a massive amount of learning resources has been made
open to public. Academics have been sharing digital content since the
early days of computing (Land & McAndrew, 2010). Online learning
through OER is one of the latest technologies in the field of education. It
provides an open network-based model to achieve free or low-cost
learning for any age group. It has become an important resource base for
teachers and students around the world. In 2001, MIT, as a pilot, firstly
launched Open Course Ware (OCW), with the aim of publishing all its
courseware on the Web, and with licenses which allow the use,
modification, and redistribution of published courseware. Since then,
many other universities have joined the movement of making their
courseware materials open. The promotion of OER benefits learners to
access materials directly and learn from them, and allows educators to
use materials directly or with modifications in their own teaching
(Liyanaguanawardena et al., 2013). Through OER, anyone from any
background with any level of expertise is given equal opportunity to
attend courses and have access to educational contents and knowledge
that they otherwise could not afford. In particular, millions of people are
currently participating in the virtual classroom of the Massive Open
Online Course (MOOC). Indeed, the number of students enrolled in a
single course at the same time could be as high as tens of thousands
(Souza & Amaral, 2014). As more and more universities and other
educational institutions offer online access to their courses, open learning
gains wider popularity in adult education, particularly in tertiary and
vocational education.</p>
<h6>1.1.2. State of Research Problem</h6>
<p>The use of mobile devices for open online courses poses additional
challenges for the adaptive delivery of learning contents. In a m-learning
environment, learners can use their mobile device to access any learning
content from the Internet. They have full control of the time and location
of their learning; they are not limited by a class timetable or classroom
location. Learners are also able to choose the content they want to learn;
they do not have to learn what the teacher has prepared and scheduled for
that class in advance. Despite the numerous advantage of m-learning,
until recently the practicality of m-learning has been limited due to the
quality of the supporting technologies and the overloaded learning
contents available to them. On the other hand, people make use of their
surrounding environment through interactions with others; they interpret
their current context and react to it. For example, when students interact
with peers, they automatically observe their peers’ tones of voice and
respond in an appropriate manner. Devices such as mobile phones are not
able to interpret the surrounding context in the same way as human do in
an interactive environment. These types of devices cannot make a full
usage of the available information in a transparent way; therefore, the
context information must be explicitly supplied to these devices to allow
the devices to respond appropriately (Sharples et al., 2009). Particularly
in m-learning applications, contextual and personal characteristics have a
strong impact on each other, i.e. personal characteristics determine a
learner's behaviour and the behaviour determines the context. The
concept of being context-aware is composed of two elements:
personalization related to the learner, and automatic customisation
related to the adaptation process. Personalisation related to the learner
means that the system knows about the learner and provides tailored
contents adaptively towards to the learner's needs (Al-Hmouz et al.,
2012, Xu et al., 2014).</p>
<p>Automatic customization means that the system creates a model for
the learner in an automatic way, based on machine learning mechanisms,
to suit the learner's situations and needs. Although the personalized
learning resources customization have been discussed over years
(Zhuhadar &Nasraoui, 2008), the open learning mode is too new to be
involved in this research effort. Thus, few personalized learning
deliveries have combined characteristics of open learning. An individual
learner’s specific needs can vary significantly in open learning, which
are normally different from traditional learning. Few research has been
done in the field of enhancing open learning experience by taking
advantage of learner modelling and educational computing techniques.
The delivery effectiveness of OERs to learners in diverse learning
environments remains challenging. Plenty of these OER were of limited
use, since they were built as specific parts of some larger educational
experience within specific educational framework (Adames et al., 2013).
On mobile platforms, learners’ attention spans are often limited to 15
minutes, as they frequently interrupt their learning activities and switch
their attention to other activities (Stockwell, 2008). Studies on MOOC
have shown that online courses are currently suffering from low
completion rates. In addition, as one of the major MOOC providers, edX
found that the videos lasting less than 6 minutes are more attractive, as
student engagement drops sharply after 6 minutes (Hylen et al., 2012;
Guo et al., 2014). Most learners who enrol in online courses eventually
drop out for a variety of reasons (Nawrot & Doucet, 2014). As the
research and development of OERs is still in its infancy, there are
evidently many research gaps concerning how to improve its learning
mechanisms, such as providing more effective learning platforms and
learning support services, so as to enable easier access and better
experiences for both service providers and learners.</p>
<p>Moreover, studies on learning resources adaption have not been
extended to micro learning scenarios, and they have not taken into
account the length or scale of learning resources or learners’ spans of
time availability. Fragmented learning with mobile devices requires
learners’ concentration and reflection. However, being on the move is
fraught with unpredictable situations and distractions. This leaves mobile
learners with a highly distracted, highly fragmented learning experience.
In addition, studies indicate that personality and learning styles play
significant roles in influencing academic achievement (Daradoumins et
al., 2013). Learners may be at their wits end to choose which courses to
study initially, or subsequently when there are many options to consider.
There are high probabilities that they cannot access the most appropriate
sets of micro OER, which can affect their achievement of satisfactory
outcomes even when they have expended substantial time. In the current
open learning environment, learning resources are often divided and
packaged by education providers or courses lecturers. This approach
lacks the flexibility needed to fit a specific learner’s learning style,
progress, and availability. Quite often, learners need to squeeze their
time to accomplish those learning activities because they are taking the
content passively. Our colleagues’ pilot work developed an adaptive
mobile learning system prototype, but it still lacks a mechanism to adjust
those courses already in-progress (Al-Hmouz et al., 2010), where
students need to prepare themselves with a schedule and plan their time
carefully over a comparatively long period, without personal guidance.
Therefore, bringing micro learning into open learning environment
exposes a significant research gap to fill.</p>
<p>The terms micro learning through OER and micro open learning
will be used interchangeably in the rest of this book.</p>
<p>Effective micro content delivery is one of the major barriers to be
overcome by course instructors or deliverers in adapting their previous
teaching strategies to micro learning environments (Sun & Shen, 2014).
Therefore, this book aims to investigate how smarter micro learning
systems can help learners to take advantage of fragmented time they
spend on mobile devices in accessing OER.</p>
<p>In regards to covering the current research gap in tailoring
personalized micro OER and enabling easier access and better
experience for both service providers and learners, this book aims to
address a variety of issues in the adaptive micro open learning,
considered through the micro open learning framework design,
personalized learner model construction oriented to micro open learning,
educational data mining and learning analytics (EDM and LA) strategic
design, semantic learner and micro OER profiling, agile solution for cold
start problem. This book introduces a novel approach towards providing
adaptive OERs, which are fragmented pieces tailored to fulfil the
requirement of carrying out micro learning.</p>
<h5>1.3 Contribution of the Book</h5>
<p>As a result of the proposed objectives, the contributions of this book can
be highlighted as bellows: </p>
<p> A system framework is developed in terms of the service-oriented
architecture (SOA). The system, Micro Learning as a Service
(MLaaS) adopts both offline and online computation domain to
work in conjunction so as to improve the performance on learning
resource adaption. </p>
<p> We propose a comprehensive learner model that allows the system
to consider individual learning styles, learner’s contexts, application
capabilities, and teaching materials structure, leading to a
customization of the type and delivery format of learning
information in response to the user. </p>
<p> A knowledge base that fills the gap of formal OER structuring,
description, and inference is constructed. A detailed EDM and LA
strategy is scheduled with regards to on-campus learning data
sources and open learning data (‘big data’) sources. </p>
<p> A solution is provided for organizing online computation in MLaaS
and a heuristic approach for addressing cold start problem in the
recommendation of micro OERs. This solution is empirically
evaluated to prove its feasibility. </p>
<h5>1.4 Outline of the Book </h5>
<p>This book consists of three sections, in a sequential order: </p>
<p> The theoretical aspects of the research, which will be presented in
the Chapter 2, 3, 4, and 5. </p>
<p>Chapter 6 and 7. </p>
<p> The conclusion part of the research and suggestions for further
research, which will be presented in the Chapter 9. </p>
<p>The rest of this book is organized as follows: </p>
<p>The Chapter 2 will introduce the basic principle of this research,
including terminology and a literature review. It will start from a
comprehensive examination over the literature on distance learning and
its development, namely the move from e-learning to mobile learning.
Next, the impact brought by the open learning and OERs. The feasibility
of embracing the micro learning with the open learning will be discussed.
This chapter emphasises the advantage of micro open learning and
highlight the inspiration to improve its current way of delivery.
Techniques that will be applied in the research include learner modelling,
EDM and LA, and big data. </p>
<p>The overall design of the research will be roll out in the Chapter 3.
The research background will be stated along with our pilot study.
Motivated by this, the research purpose will be demonstrated with
example scenarios, where ideally the adaptive micro learning activities
can be organized. In the last section of the Chapter 3, a framework of
MLaaS will be presented to depict the process of adapting micro OERs
to satisfy individual learner’s needs and context. MLaaS’s functions will
be jointly empowered by the online and offline computation domains.
Typically, there are a number of factors that impact the learning
experience and outcomes. In Chapter 4 we will conceptually build a
comprehensive learner model oriented to the micro open learning.
Features that can play roles in the entire process of micro open learning
will be selected, from both internal and external sides. The internal
factors can intellectually or non-intellectually reflect learners’ learning
behaviours. In addition, from the item perspective, we will give an
overview of the micro learning content (i.e. micro OERs). The
mechanism to categorize and customize micro OERs will be illustrated,
followed by the measurement standard. </p>
<p>Based on Chapters 3 and 4, the semantic knowledge base
construction will be conducted in the Chapter 5, using a top-down
approach. Its pattern level at the top will have the augmented ontologies
for micro OERs and learners, respectively, which will be represented by
conceptual graphs. Data sources at the bottom level will be processed in
terms of a EDM and LA based strategy, which is to understand micro
learning patterns and rules, from the both on-campus data and open
learning data perspective, and to support the decision-making process of
the micro OER recommendation system. </p>
<p>To kick off the practical aspect of this book, the Chapter 6 will
spread out the details of the online computation of the MLaaS. The
online computation aims to evidently support the first decision-making
process of micro learning adaption and delivery. First of all, a solution to
tackle the famous cold start problem will be presented as the main
contribution of this chapter. A lightweight learner-micro OER profile
will be built on top of the comprehensive learner model in order to act on
the cost start condition and fast response. Subsequently, it will also look
for the way to insert newly published micro OERs into well-established
learning paths and the real-time updating of comprehensive learner
models. </p>
<p>The Chapter 7 will provide the empirical evaluation results for the
proposed computation approach. The experiments will be operated based
on a series of simulations in which heuristic algorithms will be selected
and optimized to realize the computation process. The system
implementation will also be involved in this chapter.
The Chapter 8 will conclude this book and provide suggestions for
future research.</p>
<body>
